Hello my friends.
All right.
Excellent.
We already did the essentials with therapy pricing by imploring the libraries and importing the data
set.
And now I'd like us to particularly focus on this feature scaling that we're about to do so.
I've already touched you feature scaling in the data processing part you know part 1 where indeed we
implemented together this feature scaling tool at the very end you feature scaling where we learned
how to scale with standardization the training set and the test set separately.
Okay so that's what we did.
Now we are in a slightly different situation in the sense that indeed we do not have a split of the
data set between a training set and a test and that I remind us because we want to leverage the maximum
data in order to learn the correlations between the business levels and the salaries.
So the first thing is we will actually apply exceptionally features killing on the whole matrix of features
X then the second important point and the second difference with what I taught you before and the same
day will be pricing tools implementation is the fact that in this situation we only applied feature
scaling to the features Right.
We only applied feature scaling to extreme an excess which are the features of respectively the training
set and the test.
And we did not apply feature scaling to the dependent variable vector y but why was that.
Why did and we apply here feature scaling to the dependent variable vector Y.
Well that's because remember the data set for our data processing tools implementation was a data set
where the dependent variable was taking values 0 or 1 right.
We can scroll up to have a look again.
Remember these were the poor chaste decisions of this retail company and that's the dependent variable
taking the following values 0 4.
The customer didn't buy the product and won.
The customer bought the product and therefore since it took value 0 or 1 then we did not have to apply
feature scaling here because exactly the same as a dummy variables here the values 0 and 1 are already
in the same range as the one resulting from applying feature scaling onto the features.
All right but now we are in a different situation indeed.
This is our new dataset position salaries where the features are indeed the levels going from one to
10 and the dependent variable taking values from 45000 to 1 million.
And so now I have a question for you.
And after answering this question you will know what to do in any future scaling situation.
So according to you do we have to apply features gearing to this dependent variable the salary.
And the answer is Well yes I am sure you get that right.
Indeed we have to apply feature scaling because same we don't want this feature you know which takes
value is much lower than the values of the dependent variable to be neglected by the SVR model.
And that even if there is not an explicit equation you know like in multiple in our regression this
is an explicit equation because Y is explicitly resulting from a linear combination of features and
for as your model.
This is not the case we have an implicit equation but still through this implicit equation well if the
salary is way higher than the features and here this is absolutely the case well.
Accordingly the future might be neglected by the model.
And actually I of course try to build this as we are moral without applying feature scaling and you
can check that this absolutely does not work.
Indeed if we don't apply feature scaling for or as we are implementation and training on this data set
well you will see that there as your model will not work at all.
So we have to apply features going here on both the feature where the values go from 1 to 10 and the
dependent variable taking values from 45000 to 1 million.
All right.
And so now you know everything about just getting you know what to do in any situation you know that
you don't apply features giving to some dummy variables resulting from one hertz encoding you know that
when a dependent variable takes binary values like 0 and 1 you don't have to apply for just gaining
either because the values are already in the right range you also know that when the dependent variable
takes super high values with respect to the other features then you have to apply feature scaling to
put all the features and it had been available in the same range.
And finally you also know that whenever you want to split your dataset into the training set and the
test set while you have to apply feature scaling after this split.
All right.
So now you know everything about features killing and by the end of this implementation you will also
know something very important to do with features killing but you know on the practical side which will
be the inverse transformation of features killing you know when you scale your features or your dependent
variable at some point you know to get the final prediction and to visualize the result.
You need to inverse that features going inverse that transformation to go back to the original scale
and I will of course teach you how to do it so that we can not only get a very relevant prediction at
the end in this step here and also a super nice visualization where indeed we have the x axis and the
y axis back in their original scale.
You know these scales of the levels going from one to 10 and d scale the salaries going from 45000 to
1 million.
All right so you will know everything.
And now let's implement this new step feature scaling but just before since we're going to apply a lot
of transformations on both X and Y.
Well we're gonna do some print to see the before and after the transformation.
All right.
So let's create two new code cells here.
Let's first do a print of the matrix of features X then a print of the dependent variable vector y.
Now we're going to run the cell to print x and x contains of course in a 2D array.
As you can see with a double pair of square brackets all the position levels going from one to 10.
That was totally expected.
Then let's print Y which will this time contain in a one dimensional vector all the salaries corresponding
to these position levels.
So all good there.
But now we will have to do a first transformation and I'm not even talking about feature scaling.
That first transformation will be to reshape this Y into actually an array.
You know a two dimensional array where you have same the salaries displayed vertically meaning that
instead of having you know a horizontal vector of the salaries here.
Well we want to have the salaries vertically in a two dimensional array and so now the question is why
do we want.
Why do we have such a format you know and to the array.
Well that's because you know the standard scale class that will perform standardization meaning feature
scaling.
Expect one unique format in its input.
You know when you apply the fit transfer method which is a 2D array if you input here a one dimensional
vector like what we have here.
This will return an error simply because well this standard scalar class expects it to the array as
its input.
So now we just have to transform this into a 2D array and you actually know exactly how to do that because
we already did it.
I'll give you a hint.
This was in the multiple in our regression section.
And so now.
Well of course I would like you to press pause on this video and try to transform y.
Or you know reshape way into this 2D array with the salaries displayed vertically.
All right.
So please press pause and now I'm going to give you the solution.
So we're going to create a new code cell to do this.
And so well for us we want to update y and therefore you know we will start with this Y equals and then
we'll do the necessary transformation to return this new way.
And so how do we do this.
So the first thing to do is to take Y again from which we're gonna call that reach shape function into
which we're going to input.
Well you know the new shape that we would like Y to have and remember how we have to enter this new
shape.
Well we have to input here two elements.
The first one being the number of rows of this new y you know this new format of y want to have.
And then the number of columns.
So that's easy since we want to have the salaries to split vertically you know in different rows actually.
Well what we want to have for the number of rows is of course Len of y you know the length of Y meaning
the number of elements in y meaning the number of salaries.
Okay.
So that's the number of rows and then the second element here is the number of columns.
And of course we want one column because we want to display the salaries vertically in a 2D array of
course.
And therefore here we input 1 as in 1 column.
So we're going to have actually since we have 10 salaries we're going to have 10 rows and one column.
Okay.
So it was good to do it again.
Now you become more familiar with this reshape trick.
Okay.
Now of course we're going to print this to see and to check that everything's all right and mostly that
we have the right format expected by this standard scale class which we'll use then to apply feature
scaling.
So there we go print y and let us first execute this to reshape y.
And now let's print y to and check two things that first we have a 2D array we can clearly see that
with the double pair of square brackets and also the salaries displayed vertically just like this matrix
of features which is also add to the array of course.
All right.
So now everything's perfect we're ready play feature scaling and so we're going to do that right away
starting by creating a new code cell here.
All right.
So now how are we going to do this efficiently.
We always want to be efficient when we code.
So of course we're going to grab our tool in our data pricing toolkit.
I'm talking of course about a feature scaling tool and we'll have to adapt this a bit because this was
applied on the training and test sets but no worries we will adapt it very quickly and efficiently.
So I'm copying this and pasting that right here and now of course I would like you to please press pause
again and try to figure out on your own what we have to modify here to make this feature scaling work
for situation.
All right.
So pause and now let me give you the solution.
So first we don't have a training set of tests here so I'm going to remove this line of code.
I'm going to you know remove that as well all the index elections.
And here as well.
And I'm just keeping X and then let's see what we have to do.
All right.
So first that already more clean now with what we have here.
You know these three lines of code we are indeed applying feature scaling to the matrix of features
X which is one of the things we have to do indeed.
That's good.
However as we've just explained we also have to scale the dependent variable vector the salaries and
of course and that's the important thing.
You have to understand and figure out we're not going to use the same standard scalar object on both
the matrix of features x and the dependent variable vector Y.
Why is that.
That's because you know when you fit your object a C on your data.
Well it is going to compute the mean and the standard deviation of that same variable.
And therefore since of course we don't have the same mean and same standard deviation for our levels
here and our salaries.
Well obviously we have to create two standard scalar object one that will be fitted to X in order to
compute the mean and standard deviation of the position levels.
And one that will be fitted to Y to indeed compute the mean and the standard deviation of the salaries.
All right so that was the only important thing to understand and therefore here I'm actually going to
call this as the object is C X in order to say that it's the scalar of the matrix of features x and
here as C X as well.
And now I'm going to create a new standard scalar object the one that will be used on our dependent
variable vector y and therefore here I am replacing XY X by we're gonna call it a C Y so that it's perfectly
clear that this is a scalar of X and this is a scalar of Y.
And now we're going to copy this base that right below and here we'll just have three little replacements
to do which are first replacing X here by Y then SC X here by SC y and x here by Y.
So that now we're ready to scale both R matrix of features x and R deep and viable vector Y.
Let's check it out.
Let's run this cell and now we're going to add two new code cells to print the new X and the new Y and
see what they have become.
All right so two new code cells and let's start here with a print of X good and then a print of Y.
And now let's run these two cells here starting with print x ended.
Well we have some perfectly scaled values of the position level's going from minus one point five and
that corresponds of course to position level number one and one point fifty six which corresponds to
position level number 10.
All right.
Now let's print why and this will be interesting here.
The values will go from minus 0 point 7 which corresponds of course to the salary of forty five thousand
per year.
And two point sixty four which corresponds to the one million dollar salary.
And as you can see here the standard values are in the range from minus one to plus three.
That's why in the data pricing part I told you that usually standardization transform your values between
minus three and plus three.
All right.
So there you go.
Congratulations.
Now you successfully applied feature scaling for the as we are moral and especially for this data set
where it clearly features getting had to be applied on the dependent variable.
And now I'm really glad for you because you now know how to handle any situation of future scaling.
You just need to know how to inverse the transformation but that will come very quickly because then
we will actually trained as your model on the whole data set.
And then when we get our smart model after the training well we will predict that salary of the position
level number is six point five.
And that's where you will learn how to inverse transformation.
All right so I can't wait.
Let us build and train for it.
As VR moral on the whole data set.
And then we'll get together.
The final results.
And until then enjoy machine learning.